# MySQL-Database

## Project Requirements
 The purpose of eBay is to conduct consumer-to-consumer and producer-to-consumer sales in an online environment. This includes direct sales or auction-styled sales. eBay’s job is to provide the customer the ease to purchase an item and provide the seller the ease to sell their product. The business needs account information from both the buyers and sellers: email, password, name, address, etc. They need a listing of items for sale and prices of those items or potential bids on auction items. Bank information would be needed for both the buyers and sellers. Also needed is a record of orders and sales history. A design of the shipping: having the addresses of both the buyer and seller, as well as delivery schedule, carrier and tracking number. I want to create a relationship between these business necessities and then implement them into a database. I want to make sure that through good database management, it is possible to handle transactions in this system. This means making the ability to access information easy on my end and the user end.

## Project Assumptions
 I am assuming that all customers create an account through my website and input all their necessary information. This includes email address, name, address, and credit card information. Once they have logged in all their information, they will be able to easily access and change their information. They will also be able to access their sales and order history. Also, if possible, they could link their PayPal account and use that as a payment method. Any stored information should be used directly in each transaction to make the customer’s transaction easier.

## Project Scope
 The project scope will involve having information about sellers, information about users, and information about each product. This includes what kind of product, what the price point is, etc. For this project, I could store the general area (county or state) of the user, as well as credit card information for ease of access. I would also want to store a history of purchases, including the user that bought it, the shipping address, the billing address, the seller, their address and how much it was and what the product was. I think it would also be important to store shipping information, such as a shipping address and status including an order number and what type of shipping they’re paying for, whether it be through the seller or though eBay itself.

## Project Design Approach
 As stated above, there should be a couple different tables based on what I want to store. There should be a table storing a product. This should store the product’s name, the price, whether it’s a bid or a buy now, location information and who the seller is, whether it be a consumer or producer. Next, I would want a user table where I would store names, addresses including shipping/billing and credit card information for ease of access. Next, I would want a history of purchases table with the price, the product, the consumer and the seller as well as something along the lines of a shipping ID. I would also want a shipping table which stores the shipping information based on an order ID. This table could include data such as date ordered, expected delivery date, current status, shipping ID, order ID, shipping address, customer name. Overall, these can be split or optimized as I work through all the details and lay out my ER Diagram.
 Accounts will likely be strongly related to credit information and may be subdivided into producers and consumers, however for the sake of this overview will remain as one entity. Some of the attributes will include a primary key (PK) of USER_ID and a username. Items will likely have a foreign key (FK) of USER_ID to the seller, but a PK of PRODUCT_ID, and various descriptive attributes. Transactions will have a composite PK made up of the PRODUCT_ID, SELLER_ID, and the buyer’s USER_ID and will also be strongly related to Item and account. Bidding details will also likely be related to the item and account in the same way.
